README.md, before:

# React Forms

[![Travis build status](https://img.shields.io/travis/prometheusresearch/react-forms/develop.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/prometheusresearch/react-forms) [![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/prometheusresearch/react-forms/develop.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/prometheusresearch/react-forms)

React Forms library provides a set of tools for [React][] to handle form
rendering and validation.

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Validation](#validation)
  - [API Reference](#api-reference)
    - [`<Field />`](#field-)
    - [`<Fieldset />`](#fieldset-)
    - [`createValue({schema, value, onChange})`](#createvalueschema-value-onchange)
    - [`WithFormValue(Component)`](#withformvaluecomponent)
  - [Howto Guides](#howto-guides)
    - [Customizing form fields](#customizing-form-fields)
    - [Pattern for reusable forms](#pattern-for-reusable-forms)
- [Credits](#credits)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Installation

To use version documented here you need to install `beta` tag from npm:

    % npm install react-forms@beta

You would probably also need a module bundler such as [Browserify][] or
[Webpack][] as React Forms is distributed as a set of CommonJS modules.

## Usage

React Forms doesn't provide any `<Form />` component, instead it makes
implementing form components an easy task.

This is the example where form value is managed as a part of local component
state. Some might put form value in a Flux/Redux store instead.

```js
import React from 'react'
import {Fieldset, Field, createValue} from 'react-forms'

class Form extends React.Component {

  constructor(props) {
    super(props)
    let formValue = createValue({
      value: props.value,
      onChange: this.onChange.bind(this)
    })
    this.state = {formValue}
  }

  onChange(formValue) {
    this.setState({formValue})
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <Fieldset formValue={this.state.formValue}>
        <Field select="firstName" label="First name" />
        <Field select="lastName" label="Last name" />
      </Fieldset>
    )
  }
}
```

Then you can use `<Form />` component like any regular React component:

```js
import {render} from 'react-dom'

render(
  <Form value={{firstName: 'Michael', lastName: 'Jackson'}} />,
  document.getElementById('form')
)
```

### Validation

React Forms can validate form value using [JSON schema][]:

```js
let schema = {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    firstName: {type: 'string'},
    lastName: {type: 'string'}
  }
}
```

Simply pass it to a `createValue(..)` function:

```js
let formValue = createValue({value, onChange, schema})
```

### API Reference

#### `<Field />`

#### `<Fieldset />`

#### `createValue({schema, value, onChange})`

#### `WithFormValue(Component)`

### Howto Guides

#### Customizing form fields

All components in React Forms conform to [React Stylesheet][] API. That means
that for injecting customization one needs `react-stylesheet` package to be
installed:

    % npm install react-stylesheet

Customizing label rendering:

```js
import React from 'react'
import {style} from 'react-stylesheet'
import {Field as BaseField, Label as BaseLabel} from 'react-forms'

function Label({label, schema}) {
  return <BaseLabel className="my-label" label={label} schema={schema} />
}

let Field = style(BaseField, {
  Label: Label
})
```

Customizing error list rendering:

```js
import React from 'react'
import {style} from 'react-stylesheet'
import {Field as BaseField, ErrorList as BaseErrorList} from 'react-forms'

function ErrorList({formValue}) {
  return <BaseErrorList className="my-error-list" formValue={formValue} />
}

let Field = style(BaseField, {
  ErrorList: ErrorList
})
```

Form field with custom input component:

```js
import React from 'react'
import {Field} from 'react-forms'
import Datepicker from 'datepicker'

function DateField(props) {
  return <Field {...props} Input={Datepicker} />
}
```

Implementing form field component from scratch:

```js
import React from 'react'
import {WithFormValue} from 'react-forms'

class Field extends React.Component {

  render() {
    let {formValue} = this.props
    return (
      <div>
        <label>{formValue.schema.label}</label>
        <input value={formValue.value} onChange={this.onChange} />
      </div>
    )
  }

  onChange = (e) => this.props.formValue.update(e.target.value)
}

Field = WithFormValue(Field);
```

#### Pattern for reusable forms

```js
import React from 'react'
import {Fieldset} from 'react-forms'

class IndividualFieldset extends React.Component {

  static schema = {
    type: 'object',
    properties: {
      firstName: {type: 'string'},
      lastName: {type: 'string'}
    }
  }

  static value = {
    firstName: 'John',
    lastName: 'Doe'
  }

  render() {
    let {label, ...props} = this.props
    return (
      <Fieldset {...props}>
        <label>{label}</label>
        <Field
          select="firstName"
          label="First name"
          />
        <Field
          select="lastName"
          label="Last name"
          />
      </Fieldset>
    )
  }
}
```

Later you can compose schema and initial form value using `IndividualFieldset.schema`
and `IndividualFieldset.value` static properties and use `<IndividualFieldset />` component
itself for rendering.

```js
let schema = {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    mother: IndividualFieldset.schema,
    father: IndividualFieldset.schema
  }
}

let value = {
  mother: IndividualFieldset.value,
  father: IndividualFieldset.value
}

class FamilyForm extends React.Component {

  constructor(props) {
    super(props)
    this.state = {formValue: createValue({schema, value, this.onChange})}
  }

  onChange = (nextFormValue) => {
    this.setState({formValue: nextFormValue})
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <Fieldset formValue={this.state.formValue}>
        <IndividualFieldset
          select="mother"
          label="Mother"
          />
        <IndividualFieldset
          select="father"
          label="Father"
          />
      </Fieldset>
    )
  }
}
```

## Credits

React Forms is free software created by [Prometheus Research, LLC][] and is
released under the MIT license.

[React]: http://facebook.github.io/react/
[React Stylesheet]: https://github.com/prometheusresearch/react-stylesheet
[Prometheus Research, LLC]: http://prometheusresearch.com
[JSON schema]: http://json-schema.org/documentation.html
[Browserify]: http://browserify.org/
[Webpack]:https://webpack.github.io/docs/

Commit message:

doc: add docs on Babel

README.md, after:

# React Forms

[![Travis build status](https://img.shields.io/travis/prometheusresearch/react-forms/develop.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/prometheusresearch/react-forms) [![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/prometheusresearch/react-forms/develop.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/prometheusresearch/react-forms)

React Forms library provides a set of tools for [React][] to handle form
rendering and validation.

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Validation](#validation)
  - [API Reference](#api-reference)
    - [`<Field />`](#field-)
    - [`<Fieldset />`](#fieldset-)
    - [`createValue({schema, value, onChange})`](#createvalueschema-value-onchange)
    - [`WithFormValue(Component)`](#withformvaluecomponent)
  - [Howto Guides](#howto-guides)
    - [Customizing form fields](#customizing-form-fields)
    - [Pattern for reusable forms](#pattern-for-reusable-forms)
- [Credits](#credits)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Installation

To use version documented here you need to install `beta` tag from npm:

    % npm install react-forms@beta

You would probably also need a module bundler such as [Browserify][] or
[Webpack][] as React Forms is distributed as a set of CommonJS modules.

## Usage

React Forms doesn't provide any `<Form />` component, instead it makes
implementing form components an easy task.

Note that examples are written using ES2015 syntax. You would probably use
[Babel][] with `es2015` and `react` presets enabled to compile code to ES5 which
is compatible with most of the current runtimes.

### Basic form component.

This is the example where form value is managed as a part of local component
state. Some might put form value in a Flux/Redux store instead.

```js
import React from 'react'
import {Fieldset, Field, createValue} from 'react-forms'

class Form extends React.Component {

  constructor(props) {
    super(props)
    let formValue = createValue({
      value: props.value,
      onChange: this.onChange.bind(this)
    })
    this.state = {formValue}
  }

  onChange(formValue) {
    this.setState({formValue})
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <Fieldset formValue={this.state.formValue}>
        <Field select="firstName" label="First name" />
        <Field select="lastName" label="Last name" />
      </Fieldset>
    )
  }
}
```

Then you can use `<Form />` component like any regular React component:

```js
import {render} from 'react-dom'

render(
  <Form value={{firstName: 'Michael', lastName: 'Jackson'}} />,
  document.getElementById('form')
)
```

### Validation

React Forms can validate form value using [JSON schema][]:

```js
let schema = {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    firstName: {type: 'string'},
    lastName: {type: 'string'}
  }
}
```

Simply pass it to a `createValue(..)` function:

```js
let formValue = createValue({value, onChange, schema})
```

### API Reference

#### `<Field />`

#### `<Fieldset />`

#### `createValue({schema, value, onChange})`

#### `WithFormValue(Component)`

### Howto Guides

#### Customizing form fields

All components in React Forms conform to [React Stylesheet][] API. That means
that for injecting customization one needs `react-stylesheet` package to be
installed:

    % npm install react-stylesheet

Customizing label rendering:

```js
import React from 'react'
import {style} from 'react-stylesheet'
import {Field as BaseField, Label as BaseLabel} from 'react-forms'

function Label({label, schema}) {
  return <BaseLabel className="my-label" label={label} schema={schema} />
}

let Field = style(BaseField, {
  Label: Label
})
```

Customizing error list rendering:

```js
import React from 'react'
import {style} from 'react-stylesheet'
import {Field as BaseField, ErrorList as BaseErrorList} from 'react-forms'

function ErrorList({formValue}) {
  return <BaseErrorList className="my-error-list" formValue={formValue} />
}

let Field = style(BaseField, {
  ErrorList: ErrorList
})
```

Form field with custom input component:

```js
import React from 'react'
import {Field} from 'react-forms'
import Datepicker from 'datepicker'

function DateField(props) {
  return <Field {...props} Input={Datepicker} />
}
```

Implementing form field component from scratch:

```js
import React from 'react'
import {WithFormValue} from 'react-forms'

class Field extends React.Component {

  render() {
    let {formValue} = this.props
    return (
      <div>
        <label>{formValue.schema.label}</label>
        <input value={formValue.value} onChange={this.onChange} />
      </div>
    )
  }

  onChange = (e) => this.props.formValue.update(e.target.value)
}

Field = WithFormValue(Field);
```

#### Pattern for reusable forms

```js
import React from 'react'
import {Fieldset} from 'react-forms'

class IndividualFieldset extends React.Component {

  static schema = {
    type: 'object',
    properties: {
      firstName: {type: 'string'},
      lastName: {type: 'string'}
    }
  }

  static value = {
    firstName: 'John',
    lastName: 'Doe'
  }

  render() {
    let {label, ...props} = this.props
    return (
      <Fieldset {...props}>
        <label>{label}</label>
        <Field
          select="firstName"
          label="First name"
          />
        <Field
          select="lastName"
          label="Last name"
          />
      </Fieldset>
    )
  }
}
```

Later you can compose schema and initial form value using `IndividualFieldset.schema`
and `IndividualFieldset.value` static properties and use `<IndividualFieldset />` component
itself for rendering.

```js
let schema = {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    mother: IndividualFieldset.schema,
    father: IndividualFieldset.schema
  }
}

let value = {
  mother: IndividualFieldset.value,
  father: IndividualFieldset.value
}

class FamilyForm extends React.Component {

  constructor(props) {
    super(props)
    this.state = {formValue: createValue({schema, value, this.onChange})}
  }

  onChange = (nextFormValue) => {
    this.setState({formValue: nextFormValue})
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <Fieldset formValue={this.state.formValue}>
        <IndividualFieldset
          select="mother"
          label="Mother"
          />
        <IndividualFieldset
          select="father"
          label="Father"
          />
      </Fieldset>
    )
  }
}
```

## Credits

React Forms is free software created by [Prometheus Research, LLC][] and is
released under the MIT license.

[React]: http://facebook.github.io/react/
[React Stylesheet]: https://github.com/prometheusresearch/react-stylesheet
[Prometheus Research, LLC]: http://prometheusresearch.com
[JSON schema]: http://json-schema.org/documentation.html
[Browserify]: http://browserify.org/
[Webpack]: https://webpack.github.io/docs/
[Babel]: http://babeljs.io/
